

# Project_AIR

## This project was generated by [Flatlogic Platform](https://flatlogic.com).

  - Frontend: [React.js](https://flatlogic.com/templates?framework%5B%5D=react&sort=default)

  - Design: [Classic](https://flatlogic.com/templates?design%5B%5D=classic&sort=default)

    <details><summary>Frontend Folder Structure</summary> 

    The generated application has the following frontend folder structure: 

    `src` folder which contains your working files that will be used later to create the build. the src folder contains folders as:

      - `core` - contains the code for core module and some other core application files;

      - `components` - this module consists of a collection of UI components of your project; 

      - `documentation` - this module contains documentation of your project;

      - `hooks` - contains the useTypedSelector.js; 

      - `images` - contains all images used in your project ; 

      - `modules` - JavaScript has a concept of modules. TypeScript shares this concept;

      - `routes` - consists of all routes of the application;

      - `store` - that is, where all our states are stored, it's also contains `reducers` and `actions` folders;

      - `styles` - contains all .scss files of your application;

      - `types` - contains `filter`, `redux` and `formik` folders, where are Typescript types and interfaces;

      - `pages` - this module contains the general components for CRUD: 

        - `CRUD` folder, which includes `ChangePassword` and `Users` folders; 

        - `auth` folder;

        - `dashboard` folder;

        - `error` folder;

        - `starter` folder.

    `public` - is the web-accessible root of the site. Basically whatever is in that folder can be opened from the browser address bar. The server won't provide user access to files outside the public.
    </details>

  - Backend: [NodeJS](https://flatlogic.com/templates?backend%5B%5D=nodejs&sort=default)

    <details><summary>Backend Folder Structure</summary>   

    The generated application has the following backend folder structure: 

    `src` folder which contains your working files that will be used later to create the build. The src folder contains folders as:

      - `auth` - config the library for authentication and authorization;

      - `db` - contains such folders as:

        - `api` - documentation that is automatically generated by jsdoc or other tools;

        - `migrations` - is a skeleton of the database or all the actions that users do with the database;

        - `models`- what will represent the database for the backend;

        - `seeders` -  the entity that creates the data for the database.

      - `routes` - this folder would contain all the routes that you have created using Express Router and what they do would be exported from a Controller file;

      - `services` - contains such folders as `emails` and `notifications`.   
    </details> 

  - Database: mySQL

  -----------------------
### We offer 2 ways how to start the project locally: by running Frontend and Backend or with Docker.
-----------------------

## To start the project:

### Backend:

#### Adjust local db:
MacOS:

1. Download MySQL database server: ([https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/))
2. Install the package.
3. Afterwards, in the terminal move to the next directory: `cd backend/src/db/db.config.js`
4. Change development.password  to that you set for the root on MySQL installation process.

Windows:

1. Download MySQL database server from the following link: ([http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/)).
2. Install the package and select Server Machine as the configuration type.

Ubuntu:

1. `sudo apt update`
2. `sudo apt install mysql-server`

  ------------

#### Create database:
`yarn db:create`

#### Start production build:
`yarn start`

### Frontend:

  In the project directory, you can run:

  ### `npm start`

  Runs the app in the development mode.<br>
  Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

  The page will reload if you make edits.<br>
  You will also see any lint errors in the console.

  ### `npm test`

  Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br>
  See the section about [running tests](#running-tests) for more information.

  ### `npm run build`

  Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br>
  It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

  The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br>
  Your app is ready to be deployed!

  See the section about [deployment](#deployment) for more information.

  ### `npm run eject`

  **Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can't go back!**

  If you aren't satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

  Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (Webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you're on your own.

  You don't have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn't feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn't be useful if you couldn't customize it when you are ready for it.

## To start the project with Docker:
### Description:

The project contains the **docker folder** and the `Dockerfile`.

The `Dockerfile` is used to Deploy the project to Google Cloud.

The **docker folder** contains a couple of helper scripts:

- `docker-compose.yml` (all our services: web, backend, db are described here)
- `start-backend.sh` (starts backend, but only after the database)
- `wait-for-it.sh` (imported from https://github.com/vishnubob/wait-for-it)

    > To avoid breaking the application, we recommend you don't edit the following files: everything that includes the **docker folder** and `Dokerfile`.

## Run services:

1. Install docker compose (https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

2. Move to `docker` folder. All next steps should be done from this folder.

   ``` cd docker ```

3. Make executables from `wait-for-it.sh` and `start-backend.sh`:

   ``` chmod +x start-backend.sh && chmod +x wait-for-it.sh ```

4. Download dependend projects for services.

5. Review the docker-compose.yml file. Make sure that all services have Dockerfiles. Only db service doesn't require a Dockerfile.

6. Make sure you have needed ports (see them in `ports`) available on your local machine.

7. Start services:

   7.1. With an empty database `rm -rf data && docker-compose up`

   7.2. With a stored (from previus runs) database data `docker-compose up`

8. Check http://localhost:3000

9. Stop services:

   9.1. Just press `Ctr+C`

## Most common errors:

1. `connection refused`

   There could be many reasons, but the most common are:

  - The port is not open on the destination machine.

  - The port is open on the destination machine, but its backlog of pending connections is full.

  - A firewall between the client and server is blocking access (also check local firewalls).

   After checking for firewalls and that the port is open, use telnet to connect to the IP/port to test connectivity. This removes any potential issues from your application.

   ***MacOS:***

   If you suspect that your SSH service might be down, you can run this command to find out:

   `sudo service ssh status`

   If the command line returns a status of down, then you’ve likely found the reason behind your connectivity error.

   ***Ubuntu:***

   Sometimes a connection refused error can also indicate that there is an IP address conflict on your network. You can search for possible IP conflicts by running:

   `arp-scan -I eth0 -l | grep <ipaddress>`

   `arp-scan -I eth0 -l | grep <ipaddress>`

   and

   `arping <ipaddress>`

2. `yarn db:create` creates database with the assembled tables (on MacOS with Postgres database)

   The workaround - put the next commands to your Postgres database terminal:

   `DROP SCHEMA public CASCADE;`

   `CREATE SCHEMA public;`

   `GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA public TO postgres;`

   `GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA public TO public;`

   Afterwards, continue to start your project in the backend directory by running:

   `yarn start`
